docs/intro.md, before:

---
id: intro
title: Intro
sidebar_label: Hello! 🤙
---

<div class="videocontainer">
  <iframe width="800" height="400" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dP1s7viFZHY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

<style>
:root {
  --highlight: #e1e1e1;
  --hover: #e1e1e1;
}
</style>

# Welcome to the Precious Plastic Academy!

<div class="videoChapters">
<div class="videoChaptersMain">

### Awesome to see you are interested in recycling plastic.
We've made this section of videos, tutorials and content to share the most crucial things we've learned over the last years about transforming plastic waste into valuable products. 

We will teach you about the basics of plastic - what types there are and how to identify them, to collecting and separating plastic, to building your own machines, business models you can adopt, how to become an important member in the Precious Plastic community, and much more. 

We’ve created download packs and templates and once you’ve gone through everything, you’ll be ready to start your own recycling workspace, anywhere in the world!

</div>
<div class="videoChaptersSidebar">

### Video Chapters

- 00:00 Introduction
- 00:42 What will you learn
- 01:40 Help & Feedback
- 02:01 Donate
- 02:30 Spread the project

</div>
</div>


![Open Source](assets/Intro/opensource.svg)

## But wait - why did you do this? And why is it all for free?

At Precious Plastic we want to show the world the incredible opportunities of plastic waste in order to eliminate plastic pollution, reducing the demand for new virgin plastic and closing its materials loop while creating better livelihoods for people around the world. Precious Plastic is, above all, a cultural tool to change the way society perceives plastic.

All plastic laying around you is a resource, not waste. It is a material with great potential, left intact all around the world and if processed correctly, can become something new and valuable. This resource can become a source of income or an educational tool for your community, at the same time making sure it doesn’t enter our environment.

<img style="padding: 50px" src="./assets/Intro/PP_universe.svg" width="500px"/>

We have created machines, documentation, video tutorials, campaigns and a platform to empower people across the planet to start working with plastic waste locally while trying to decentralise and localise plastic recycling technologies, infrastructures and knowledge by providing open-source designs for machines, moulds and consumer products, as well as business models and tools for you to set up and run a workspace.

We share everything open source for anyone to benefit from. This means that all the knowledge, know-how, processes, methodologies and tools are available online, for free at all times. This open source philosophy is at the core of Precious Plastic and shapes most decisions within our team. We believe that collaboration is stronger than competition and that the plastic problem can only be solved collectively.

<p class="note">Are you interested to connect with the Precious Plastic community? Perhaps you want to learn more or share your own knowledge. Well you're in luck! We have created a Discord to discuss all the things we're doing here. Check out the Questions section in the sidebar to see where you can chat with people locally and globally.</p>

Ok, let's dive in!

Commit message:

Edits I made a long while back to the basics page

docs/intro.md, after:

---
id: intro
title: Intro
sidebar_label: Hello! 🤙
---

<div class="videocontainer">
  <iframe width="800" height="400" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dP1s7viFZHY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

<style>
:root {
  --highlight: #e1e1e1;
  --hover: #e1e1e1;
}
</style>

# Welcome to the Precious Plastic Academy!

<div class="videoChapters">
<div class="videoChaptersMain">

### Awesome to see you are interested in recycling plastic.
We've created this collection of videos, tutorials and content to share the most crucial things we've learned over the past 7 years about transforming plastic waste into valuable products.

We will teach you about the basics of plastic - what types there are and how to identify them, collecting and separating plastic, building your own machines, business models you can adopt, how to become an important member in the Precious Plastic community, and much more.

We’ve created download kits and templates so once you’ve gone through everything, you’ll be ready to start your own recycling workspace, anywhere in the world!

</div>
<div class="videoChaptersSidebar">

### Video Chapters

- 00:00 Introduction
- 00:42 What will you learn
- 01:40 Help & Feedback
- 02:01 Donate
- 02:30 Spread the project

</div>
</div>


![Open Source](assets/Intro/opensource.svg)

## But wait - why did you do this? And why is it all for free?

At Precious Plastic we want to show the world the incredible opportunities of plastic waste in order to eliminate plastic pollution, reducing the demand for new virgin plastic and closing its materials loop while creating better livelihoods for people around the world. Precious Plastic is, above all, a cultural tool to change the way society perceives plastic.

All plastic laying around you is a resource, not waste. It is a material with great potential, laying all around the world that, if processed correctly, can become something new and valuable. This resource can become a source of income or an educational tool for your community, while making sure it doesn’t enter our environment.

<img style="padding: 50px" src="./assets/Intro/PP_universe.svg" width="500px"/>

We have created machines, documentation, video tutorials, campaigns and a platform to empower people across the planet to start working with plastic waste locally while trying to decentralise and localise plastic recycling technologies, infrastructures and knowledge by providing open-source designs for machines, moulds and consumer products, as well as business models and tools for you to set up and run a recycling workspace.

We share everything open source for anyone to use and benefit from. This means that all the knowledge, know-how, processes, methodologies and tools are available online, for free at all times. This open source philosophy is at the core of Precious Plastic and shapes most decisions within our team. We believe that collaboration is stronger than competition and that the plastic problem can only be solved collectively.

If you are in the position to help there are many ways you can <a href="https://support.preciousplastic.com/">support Precious Plastic.</a>

<p class="note">Are you interested to connect with the Precious Plastic community? Perhaps you want to learn more or share your own knowledge. Well you're in luck! We have created a Discord to discuss all the things we're doing here. Check out the Questions section in the sidebar to see where you can chat with people locally and globally.</p>

Ok, let's dive in!
